
Development expands our freedom in many different factor, including economic and opportunities. Development isn't to be more rich, but to have more freedom. Freedom in different forms and point of view, the definition of freedom varies and theres no one set definition for it. For example, freedom to travel with the development of transportation. The development of transportation makes it easier to go place, pre development makes it harder to get from point A to point B.

The view of development is expansive, there's many different ways one can approach development. Amartya Sen gives many different examples as to how development can be approach and why different countries develop differently. Every country is different in it's way of living and physical location, just by simply looking at surface level data is not enough to see a countries development. To see the development of a country, Amartya Sen suggest to look at each points seperatly to fully understand the development.

Though development help us gain freedom, but can still at time let us loose our freedom. Unfreedom still exists due to many different factor, some of which the same factor of development freedom. Health freedom are increasing, but not everyone have the same access to it. People living in the city can easily get access to a health care location, its not the same for people living in the country side. In the city you nearest clinic might just be down the street from your apartment, where in the country side the nearest might be 30minute drive away.

The shift in living due to devlopment can not be simply done by one, no one can easily get used to this new form of living. It takes time to get used to these development and thats what sustainable angency are doing. We might find it easy to fill out our own paper work online, that's because we grew up in a computer decades. Try telling older generations that the place no longer accepts physical paper forms, they then have no idea what they're suppose to do. Thats what these agency are doing, they are being the third person between physical and digital work. Agency are people's guide to development. It takes time for one to get used to the development and even with time, not everyone can get use to it. 

What does Amartya Sen say about being generically against markets?
It is odd to be generically against the market, but it can still happen. As development can change living habbits and standards of living, it does lead to unfreedom. People who would be against these development are people who are not gaining freedom from these development. The freedom to be against the markets are often agaisnt the unfreedom of the labor force, something that is extremly important to many people living in a thrid world country. 

What was the story of Kader Mia? What was the penalty of his economic unfreedom?
Kander Mia went to work in a neighborhood and ended up being physically injuryed. Though his wife told him to stay away from this dangerous neighborhood, he still decided to go. He risk this danger because the need for money, the need for this job. His low income does not give him the freedom to choose where he wants to work, he would do any work that will pay him. He need this money, his family need this money. 

Who were Condorcet and Malthus? What were their primary arguments regarding development and fertility?
Condorcet says that with development, fertility rate would go down. Whereas Malthus believe that fertility rate would not go down but go up. Malthus believe that as development occurs, people are going to get marry at a younger rate. Condorcet believe that when people are gaining more freedom in economic, the fertility rate would decrease. Condorcet sees the unfreedom perspective, which leads to his conclusion. Whereas Malthus believe now that health care are advancing, the expendency of life are to increase. 
