In “Big Data, New Epistemologies and Paradigm Shifts” by Rob Kitchen the author emphasizes the importance of measurement as a significant contributing factor for improved description and analysis of complex natural and/or social phenomenon. How is the advent of big data serving to advance this revolution in measurement and subsequently, how is this revolution in measurement serving to elevate data science as an interdisciplinary field of study? 
While knowledge-driven data using an approach where an colcusion is made through a single approach, ignoring all other factors outside of it. As technology are improving, continuing to use such apporach would put the advancment of technology to no use. More datas are becoming avaliable with the advancment of technology, these datas can be used in conclusion process to help better understand the datas. 

How is the data deluge advancing a better understanding of human movement, behavior and relationships? How does data science contribute towards our improved understanding of human development as a complex and adapting social and economic system?
When computers were first developed, it was a gaint block of eletrionic that might be sitting at local libraries, offices, or one's home. The population that owns this are low, and they are mainly used for work/school purpose. Whereas now, it's harder to find someone without a smartphone than to find someone with a desktop at home. While the population that are using these computer devices are increasing, the populations that data are being collected are also gathered. Human movements, something that was unavaliable 20 years ago. Now as we are carrying that smartphones around, it's tracking our location and where we have been. With atheletic devices, sometimes even your heartbeat and how many miles you have ran are also being collected. All these data are gathered and can help to better off make conclusions. When using a knowledge driven data approach, we are ignoring many human action factors. Every human is different, you can rarely find where two human that has the exact same data. With advancment of technology, we are able to put these human action into factors when making conclusions. 
